then it came to pass at the end of two
full years that Pharaoh had a dream and
behold he stood by the river suddenly
there came out out of the river seven
cows fine-looking and fat and they fed
in the meadow then to hold seven other
cows came up after them out of the river
ugly and gaunt and stood by the other
cows on the bank of the river and the
ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven
fine-looking and fat cattle so Pharaoh
awoke he slept and dreamed a second time
and suddenly seven heads of grain came
up on one stalk plump and good then
behold seven thin heads blighted by the
east wind sprang up after them and the
seventh in heads devoured the seven
plump and full heads so Pharaoh awoke
and indeed it was a dream
now it came to pass in the morning that
his spirit was troubled and he sent and
called for all the magician's of Egypt
and all its wise men and Pharaoh told
them his dreams but there was no one who
could interpret them for Pharaoh then
the chief Butler spoke to Pharaoh
I remember my faults this day when
Pharaoh was angry with his servants and
put me in custody in the house of the
captain of the guard both me and the
chief Baker we each had a dream in one
night he and I each of us dreamed
according to the interpretation of his
own dream now there was a young Hebrew
man with us there a servant of the
captain of the guard and we told him and
he interpreted our dreams for us to each
man he interpreted according to his own
dream and it came to pass just as he
interpreted for us so it happened he
restored me to my office and
he hanged him then Pharaohs sentient
cold Joseph and they brought him quickly
out of the dungeon and he shaved changed
his clothing and came to Pharaoh and
Pharaoh said to Joseph I had had a dream
and there is no one who can interpret it
but I have heard it said of you that you
can understand a dream to interpret it
so Joseph answered Pharaoh saying it is
not in me God will give Pharaoh an
answer of peace behold in my dream I
stood on the bank of the river suddenly
seven cows came up out of the river
fine-looking and fat and they fed in the
meadow then behold seven other cows came
up after them poor and very ugly and
gaunt such ugliness as I have never seen
in all the land of Egypt and the gaunt
and ugly cows ate up the first seven the
fat cows when they had eaten them up no
one would have known that they had eaten
them for they were just as ugly as at
the beginning so I awoke
also I saw in my dream and suddenly
seven heads came up on one stock full
and good then behold seven heads
withered thin and blighted by the east
wind spring up after them and the thin
heads devoured the seven good heads so I
told this to the magicians but there was
no one who could explain it to me the
dreams of Pharaoh are one God has shown
Pharaoh what he is about to do the seven
good cows are seven years and the Seven
good heads are seven years the dreams
are one and the seventh in an ugly cows
which came up after them are seven years
and the Seven empty heads blighted by
the east wind are seven years of famine
this is the thing which I have spoken to
Pharaoh God has shown Pharaoh what he is
about to do indeed seven years of great
Plenty will come throughout all the land
of Egypt but after them seven years of
famine will arise and all the plenty
will be forgotten in the land of Egypt
and the famine will deplete the land so
the plenty will not be known in the land
because of the famine following for it
will be very severe
and the dream was repeated to Pharaoh
twice because the thing is established
by God and God will shortly bring it to
pass now therefore let Pharaoh select a
discerning and wise man and set him over
the land of Egypt let Pharaoh do this
and let him appoint officers over the
land to collect one-fifth of the produce
of the land of Egypt in the seven
plentiful years and let them gather all
the food of those good years that are
coming and store up grain under the
authority of Pharaoh and let them keep
food in the cities then that food shall
be as a reserve for the land for the
seven years of famine which shall be in
the land of Egypt that the land may not
perish during the famine so the advice
was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in
the eyes of all his servants and Pharaoh
said to his servants can we find such a
one as this a man in whom is the Spirit
of God from Pharaoh said to Joseph in as
much as God has shown you all this there
is no one as discerning and wise as you
you shall be over my house and all my
people shall be ruled according to your
word only in regard to the throne will I
be greater than you see I have set you
over all the land of Egypt then Pharaoh
took his signet ring off his hand and
put it on Joseph's hand and he clothed
them in garments of fine linen and put a
gold chain around his neck and he had
him ride in the second chariot which
and they cried out before him
so he set him over all the land of Egypt
Pharaoh also said to Joseph
I am Pharaoh and without your consent no
man may lift his hand or foot in all the
land of Egypt
and Pharaoh called Joseph's name zefnep
Payoneer and he gave him as a wife
Asenath the daughter of Potiphar a
priest of our
so Joseph went out over all the land of
Egypt Joseph was thirty years old when
he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt
and Joseph went out from the presence of
Pharaoh and went throughout all the land
of Egypt now in the seven plentiful
years the ground brought forth
abundantly so he gathered up all the
food of the seven years which were in
the land of Egypt and laid up the food
in the cities he laid up in every city
the food of the fields which surrounded
them
Joseph gathered very much grain as the
sand of the sea until he stopped
counting for it was immeasurable anta
Jazze if were born two sons before the
years of famine came whom Asenath the
daughter of Potiphar a priest of on 40
Joseph called the name of the firstborn
Manasseh for God has made me forget all
my toil and all my father's house and
the name of the second he called Ephraim
for God has caused me to be fruitful in
the land of my affliction then the seven
years of plenty which were in the land
of Egypt ended and the seven years of
famine began to come as Joseph had said
the famine was in all lands but in all
the land of Egypt there was bread so in
all the land of Egypt was famished the
people cried to Pharaoh for bread then
Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians Gold
to Joseph whatever he says do you do for
famine was over all the face of the
earth and Joseph opened all the
storehouses and sold to the Egyptians
and the famine became severe in the land
of Egypt
so all countries came to Joseph in Egypt
to buy grain because the famine was
severe in all lands